Add documentation for logging. (#2054)
hashicorp/terraform-website: content/plugin/log/writing.mdx

---
page_title: 'Home - Plugin Development: Writing Log Output'
description: >-

>   Information on how to write logs from your provider, to make it easier to
>   debug issues and understand what is happening.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Write logs from your provider that help users debug issues and understand operations.
```

## Logging Levels

You must choose a verbosity level for each line of log output. This lets you and other consumers [filter the log output](/plugin/log/filtering) from your provider by level. For example, you can set your provider to write only logs of type `Warn` during a Terraform run.

The following levels are listed from least verbose to most verbose.

### Error

Least verbose output that typically describes an unexpected condition that will halt execution. Often, they provide more information about a user-facing error.

```go
tflog.Error(ctx, "unrecognized API response body")
```

### Warn

Output that describes an unexpected condition, but not one that should halt execution. Warn log output is intended for warnings. Good candidates are deprecations or environment issues.

```go

> tflog.Warn(ctx, "API returned a 500 error, retrying")

Reviewer: yes, very good point!

```

### Info

Output that describes a certain logic condition or event. Good candidates for info logging are details about the environment your provider is running in or how it has been configured to run.

```go
tflog.Info(ctx, "operating against API version 1.2.3")
```

### Debug

Verbose output that typically describes important operational details like milestones in logic. Good candidates for Debug logging are behaviors that may confusing even though they are correct.

```go
tflog.Debug(ctx, "found two identical diagnostics in the response, deduplicating down to one")
```

### Trace

The most verbose output that describes the lowest level details of operation, such as intra-function steps or raw data.

```go
tflog.Trace(ctx, "creating the widget")
resp, err := client.CreateWidget(ctx)
if err != nil {
  panic(err)
}

> tflog.Trace(ctx, "created the widget")

Reviewer: gotcha!  thank you for providing an explanation when you make these suggestions! It really helps me learn :)

### Create Subsystems

To create a new subsystem, pass context and the subsystem name to the `NewSubsystem()` method.

```go
// my-subsystem is the name of the subsystem
// it will be attached to all your logs
ctx = tflog.NewSubsystem(ctx, "my-subsystem")
```

Optionally, you can also specify a [logging level](#logging-levels) for the subsystem.

```go
ctx = tflog.NewSubsystem(ctx, "my-subsystem", hclog.Debug)
```

You can also configure an environment variable to control the logging level instead of hardcoding it into the subsystem.

```go
// read the level from TF_LOG_MYPROVIDER_CLIENT
ctx = tflog.NewSubsystem(ctx, "my-subsystem", tflog.WithLevelFromEnv("TF_LOG_MYPROVIDER_CLIENT"))
```

### Use Subsystems

Use the `Subsystem*` functions to associate log output with a specific subsystem.

```go
tflog.SubsystemDebug(ctx, "my-subsystem", "writing to a subsystem", "meaning_of_life", 42)
```

> Just like with `tflog.With`, it's important that the `Subsystem*` functions get passed the context that is returned from `tflog.NewSubsystem`; the modified logger is stored in the context.

Reviewer: @bflad I don't really understand what this means. And should we show an example?

Reviewer: YES - thank you

```go
tflog.Info(ctx, "Using API token for authentication")
```

### Debug

Verbose output that typically describes important operational details like milestones in logic. It often describes behaviors that may confusing even though they are correct.

```go
tflog.Debug(ctx, "Two identical diagnostics in the response, deduplicating down to one")
```

### Trace

The most verbose output that describes the lowest level operational details, such as intra-function steps or raw data.

```go
tflog.Trace(ctx, "Creating the widget")
```

## Variables

Use variables to attach information to specific logs or to an entire logger, which adds that information to all subsequent logs. You can also combine both methods to simplify your logging code.

### Single Log Variables

To specify filterable variables in the log output, add sets of key and value argument pairs after the log message. You can add as many key and value argument pairs as you need, but the key must always come before its associated value.

The following example adds both a URL and a method for an API request.

```go
tflog.Trace(ctx, "executing API request",

>     "url", "https://www.example.com/my/endpoint", "method", "POST")

Reviewer 2: Nit: Might be nice to newline split these based on pairings for clarity 😄 

```suggestion
    "url", "https://www.example.com/my/endpoint",
    "method", "POST")
```

Reviewer: yes good point!

```

You can also use other standard Go types for values.

```go
tflog.Trace(ctx, "executing API request",

>     "url", "https://www.example.com/my/endpoint", "method", "POST",
>     "size", 200, "authenticated", true, "headers",
>     map[string][]string{"content-type": []string{"application/json"}})

Reviewer 2: Nit: Same here 😄 

```suggestion
    "url", "https://www.example.com/my/endpoint",
    "method", "POST",
    "size", 200,
    "authenticated", true,
    "headers", map[string][]string{"content-type": []string{"application/json"}})
```
